GPL.next
========

GPL.next is a fork of the GNU General Public License, version 3,
initiated by Richard Fontana. Contributions of patches, ideas, and
criticism are welcome. Forks in the GitHub sense are encouraged. The
goal of this effort is to develop an improved strong copyleft free
software license.

This is *not* an effort endorsed by the Free Software Foundation or
the GNU project. This is also *not* an effort associated in any way
with Red Hat (Richard Fontana's employer).

The FSF has asserted copyright in the text of the GNU GPLv3. However,
the FSF has expressly authorized (though discouraged) modified
versions of the GNU GPL, subject to certain conditions:
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#ModifyGPL

As requested by the FSF in the aforementioned FAQ, I (Richard Fontana)
have thought twice and have decided to proceed with this fork. Note
that every effort shall be made to make this fork compatible with all
existing versions of the GNU GPL.

The meta-license from the FSF stated in its FAQ shall be the license
of all versions of the GPL.next license text (to the extent that such
versions retain any copyrightable material from versions of the GNU
GPL in which the FSF has asserted copyright), and all patches merged
in the GPL.next license text. Restated here by me, that meta-license
is as follows:

* Everyone has permission to use terms from any version of the GNU GPL
  (with or without modifications) in creating a new license text,
  without any restriction, other than these requirements: (1) the
  license must be "call[ed] ... by another name"; (2) no existing
  version of a GNU license Preamble may be included; and (3) if the
  instructions-for-use at the end of the GNU GPL are copied or
  adapted, they must be modified "enough to make it clearly different
  in wording and not mention GNU".

I consider the name "GPL.next" to be "another name" in the sense meant
in this meta-license. (I would consider it a violation of the
meta-license to use the "GNU" name, of course.) Contrary to what some
believe, the "G" in "GPL" does not stand for "GNU", but "General";
"GPL" means "license to (or for) the general public". As such, the
name "GPL" strikes me as having been conceived as generic. Indeed, the
common use of "public license" in free software license names without
the word "general" probably represents a historical failure to parse
"GPL" correctly.

All copyrightable materials included in this project, other than any
copied or adapted portions of GNU license texts and except where
otherwise indicated, are dedicated to the public domain to the maximum
extent permissible under applicable law, pursuant to the Creative
Commons CC0 Universal Public Domain Dedication 1.0 (see the file CC0
for details).
